Persistent volume (claim):

gcePersistentDisk: add the disk from kubernetes/google cloud config
gcloud compute disks create postgres-disk --size=10GB --type=pd-standard --zone=<your-zone>
europe-west10-a
(berlin)

check google default storage class. Possible rather save on ssd than hdd

i believe googles default storage class is fine.

labels not important for configuration


service for deployment: 

headless service:   A headless service is a Kubernetes service that does not have a cluster IP address. 
                    Instead, it provides DNS records for the pods in the stateful set.

headless because no clusterIP defined.


stateful set:   A stateful set is a Kubernetes resource that manages the deployment and scaling of a set of Pods 
                that have persistent identities and storage.

the match labels matches app: postgres with the same label under the template-> metadata field.

In your StatefulSet definition, the Pod template includes a label app: postgres. 
This means that any Pod created by this StatefulSet will have this label.

So, the connection between the Service selector and the StatefulSet Pod template label is that they use the same key-value pair (app: postgres). 
This ensures that the Service will route traffic to the Pods created by the StatefulSet.

liveness/readyness
you can ensure that your application is restarted when it crashes or deadlocks (liveness),
and that it doesn't receive traffic before it's ready or while it's busy (readiness)

todo:
security
test, how to access
secure password delivery
more configuration
discuss size, delayseconds, cpu resources, readWriteOnce


google cloud stored at: C:\Users\degre\AppData\Local\Google\Cloud SDK

redirect port in testing
kubectl port-forward pods/postgres-0 5432:5432
localhost to connect

When you specify localhost in a command inside a container, it refers to the container itself, not the host machine or any other container.
 This is true regardless of where your Kubernetes cluster is running, whether it's on your local machine, on Google Cloud, or on any other cloud provider.



hej andreas, 
jeg har lige et par spørgsmål til devops halløj:

1. jeg kan huske der blev ændret noget ift branches og de der subdirectories. Er der noget jeg skal tage hensyn til, før jeg commiter eller pusher noget?

2. Hvordan kommer databasen til at blive initialized? er det noget jeg skal ordne, eller er det noget der gøres i django?
Depending on hvad svaret er har jeg måske følgspgørgsmål, fordi det er rod at køre noget python script i kubernetes.

3. Hvordan opretter man nye secrets? er det bare manuelt at går in i github og oprette noget nyt? 
Og i forlængelse af det: har vi noget github actions workflow? det ser ud til som om det er det som bruges for at få secretsene over til kubernetes
